# Boston’s 1960s Civil Rights Movement: A Look Back

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

The Boston’s 1960s Civil Rights Movement: A Look Back collection was created in 
the spirit of the African symbol Sankofa that in the Akan language of Ghana is 
loosely translated as “Go Back to Fetch It,” meaning to learn from one’s past. 
It consists of more than 14-hours of WGBH radio and television programming 
created during the 1963-1967 period of the civil rights movement in Boston. The 
collection provides an opportunity for students and scholars to get a closer 
look at some of the historic events in Boston’s civil rights history as they 
actually unfolded, from the perspective of the activists, participants and 
other stakeholders.  The collection features discussion panels presenting the 
views of local civil rights leaders, educators and other activists that provide 
the historical context of the efforts of Boston Branch of the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), African American 
parents and their allies to desegregate the Boston Public Schools a decade 
before the court-ordered busing in the 1970s.  It also includes broadcasts and 
interviews with local and national civil rights leaders, community residents, 
the clergy and public officials related to events such as the March on Roxbury, 
the NAACP Sit-In at the Boston Public School Headquarters, 15 Beacon Street, 
the Mothers for Adequate Welfare Sit-In and the Roxbury Uprising. The bulk of 
the Boston’s 1960s Civil Rights Movement collection is the more than 8-hours of 
programming that focuses on the 1963 and 1964 Stay-Out for Freedom campaigns, a 
nonviolent, direct action movement against de facto segregation in the Boston 
Public Schools led by James Breeden and Noel Day. One of the first school 
boycotts in the North, it is also the subject of the accompanying essay. It 
includes radio recordings of interviews with the leaders and children, press 
conferences and live broadcasts of the day’s activities of the Freedom Schools. 

## author

Audrea Dunham

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra