# The Julia Child of Needlework: Erica Wilson’s Legacy in Stitches and on 
Television

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/scholar_exhibits/needlework/needlework_554x340.png)

## intro

Erica Moira Susan Wilson (1928-2011) has been called the “Julia Child of 
Needlework,” and her impact on the field of sewing and craft-related television 
has arguably been as great as that of Julia Child on the TV cooking program 
genre. Like Child, who made archaic aspects of French cookery accessible to a 
popular audience, Wilson revived and modernized old-fashioned needlework 
techniques with boundless enthusiasm. In Wilson’s obituary in The Guardian, 
Veronica Horwell wrote, “Wilson shared some of Child's enthusiastic style and 
all of her ambition to demystify and democratize what had become arcane 
skills.” This essay explores Erica Wilson’s work and her tremendous impacts 
both on needlework and on public television, as evidenced through the lens of 
Erica, a program produced by WGBH in 1971-72 and 1975-6 and broadcast on PBS 
stations nationally. 

## author

Dr. Amanda Grace Sikarskie

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

- [The Quilt Index](http://www.quiltindex.org/) is a free, open access project 
of Matrix, Michigan State University Museum, and the Quilt Alliance. [The Quilt 
Index is a searchable repository of digital photographs, texts (oral, video, 
and written), and documents pertaining to quilts, quiltmakers, and 
quilt-related activities. As of January 2013, it contains more than 50,000 
digital representations of quilts from museums, libraries, archives, research 
projects, and private individuals from around the world.

- [Hmong 
Embroidery](http://www.quiltindex.org/search_results.php?pattern_name=&quilter=&
quilting_group=&quilt_id=&overall_loc=&city_made=&state_made=Any+State&province_
made=&country_made=&period=Any&start_year=&end_year=&owner_name=&qproject=Any&co
llection=Any&predom_color=&): In his 90 Seconds with… episode, Chang Xiong 
discusses his embroidery based in the tradition of the Hmong people of Vietnam.

- [Inspiration from Children’s 
Literature](http://www.quiltindex.org/galleryFullRecord.php?kid=3-98-5F): Erica 
Wilson frequently used illustrations and characters from children’s literature, 
especially the works of Beatrix Potter, as inspiration for needlework designs. 
Additionally, in her episode of 90 Seconds with…, quiltmaker Ann Brauer 
discussed how stories such as Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland have inspired 
her quilts. All of these quilts were inspired by classics of children’s 
literature

- [Animal Motifs](http://www.quiltindex.org/galleryFullRecord.php?kid=3-98-5D): 
Erica Wilson was very fond of animals and devoted Erica episode “Creatures 
Great and Small” to depictions of animals in needlework. All of these quilts 
feature animals, mostly in appliqué designs.

- [English Template 
Piecing](http://www.quiltindex.org/search_results.php?sortby=ID+Number%28first-last%29&keywords=stuffed+work&search=go): 
Erica Wilson demonstrates a paper 
piecing method for making even patchwork in the “Patchwork” episode of Erica. 
All of these quilts on the Quilt Index used paper piecing, often called 
“English template piecing” in the United States, in their construction.

- [Quilt Patterns](http://www.quiltindex.org/browsepattern.php):  In the 
“Patchwork,” episode of the Erica show, Erica Wilson showed many different 
traditional quilt patterns, such Carolina Lily, crazy quilts, Dresden Plate, 
Drunkard’s Path, Hexagon Mosaic, Log Cabin, and Trip Around the World. All of 
these patterns and many more are illustrated here

- [Quilts and Human 
Rights](http://www.quiltindex.org/galleryFullRecord.php?kid=3-98-18): Much of 
Chang Xiong’s work deals with the refugee experience and the Vietnam War. For 
more quilts depicting human rights issues, see Mary Worrall, Marsha MacDowell, 
and Lynee Swanson’s exhibit, Quilts and Human Rights.

## Authors

Dr. Amanda Grace Sikarskie is Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of 
History at Western Michigan University and Adjunct Assistant Professor in the 
Museum Studies Program at Michigan State University. She is also a Research 
Associate with the Quilt Index, an online archive providing preservation and 
access for images and metadata of over 60,000 quilts held in collections across 
the United States and around the world. Dr. Sikarskie’s research examines the 
history of quilts and quiltmaking, as well as the role of digital tools in 
bringing quilt history to the public, and she has published and presented 
extensively on American quilts and needlework. 

Additional Credits: Adviser Consulted During the Creation of this Collection: 
Marsha MacDowell, Ph.D. Marsha is Curator, Michigan State University Museum, 
and Professor, Department of Art, Art History, and Design, Michigan State 
University. Her research foci includes traditional material culture (especially 
quilts), folk arts and education, and museum theory and practice. 

## extra