# Eric Jackson’s Radio Legacy 

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

The Eric Jackson Interviews with Master Musicians A research project conducted 
by Leonard Brown, associate professor of African American Studies and Music, 
Northeastern University, Boston, MA Introduction Over the last three decades, I 
have been involved in researching and sharing knowledge on musicians’ thoughts, 
feelings, views and beliefs on and about what they do and why they do it. Some 
of my work has focused specifically on African American musicians as composers, 
arrangers and performers ‘of and in’ the creative improvisational music 
commonly known as jazz. The scope of my research work has also included 
examination the roles of jazz radio hosts in enlightening, informing and 
educating the general listening audience to the aesthetics and creative 
principles of jazz musicians and the music they compose and perform. As a 
result of my research in the area, I have developed great respect and 
appreciation for Eric Jackson. Known as the “Dean of Boston Jazz Radio”, Eric 
has created an outstanding legacy of commitment to the music and the musicians. 
Because of his deep knowledge of the music and his respectful and sincere 
attitude towards the musicians, Eric has been able to establish trusting 
relationships with these professionals. These relationships have resulted in 
interviews with musicians that are relaxed, informative, insightful, and 
provide an intimate and unique record of the accounts of master musicians in 
their own words. For this research project, I was provided access to audio 
recordings of a number of live interviews conducted by Eric Jackson on his WGBH 
show, “Eric In the Evening”. All the interviews were recorded in the 1980’s and 
1990’s and feature some of the greatest musicians of the 20th century, many of 
whom have been honored by the National Endowment for the Arts as Jazz Masters. 
Live commentary between musicians and Eric Jackson give insight into the world 
of these musicians. These insights range from autobiographical information to 
theoretical, compositional and repertoire considerations, and from personal 
preferences to significant historical commentary about the music business. The 
interviews serve to illustrate the depth of knowledge and understanding that 
Eric Jackson as presenter and archivist has of the music and his personal 
relationships with the musicians. A key to the importance of what is expressed 
in the interviews has to do with Eric’s strong personal and emotional 
connection with each artist and their collective appreciation and respect for 
Jackson’s stature as a programmer, historian of the music, and member of the 
community. METHOD AND SELECTION Over a six month period I spent time listening 
to each interview, taking notes on the various topics and subjects of 
discussion. I then organized and refined the content, ultimately selecting five 
interviews for sharing with the public via the WGBH homepage. The selected 
interviews are Alan Dawson, Roy Haynes, Ahmad Jamal, Sheila Jordan and Arthur 
Taylor Acknowledged masters in their own right, each of the interviews provides 
intriguing reflections on their biographies, views, opinions, thoughts and 
endeavors. I selected the interviews based on the knowledge, history and 
insights each provides that will be of interest to the WGBH listening and 
reading audience. Some themes and topics discussed in the interviews include: 
“Good and bad music” Teaching Tony Williams - The joy of singing - Memories of 
“Bird” and “Prez” - The importance of dancers in jazz drum performance history 
- The brilliance of Papa Joe Jones It is my hope that through reading and 
hearing the interviews, one will benefit from the knowledge of five jazz master 
musicians and one masterful jazz radio host. Leonard Brown, October 2013 

## author

Leonard Brown

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra