# The Grete L. Bibring Collection

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

Grete Lehner Bibring was born in Vienna on January 11, 1899. Inspired by 
Sigmund Freud's work in psychoanalysis, she became one of the very few female 
medical students at the University of Vienna in 1918, and one of the first 
psychiatrists to champion the need to incorporate psychoanalysis into the 
practice of medicine. She married a member of Freud's Vienna Psychoanalytic 
Society Edward Bibring in 1921. Leaving Austria after Nazi's takeover in 1938, 
they eventually settled in Boston in 1941, where Dr. Grete L. Bibring continued 
her medical career and became a chief of psychiatry at Boston Beth Israel 
Hospital and the first woman clinical professor at Harvard Medical School in 
1961. The Boston postwar period was fruitful for both psychiatry and 
psychoanalysis, with more medical students entering psychiatry and more 
psychiatrists seeking analytic training. A change in the acceptance of 
psychoanalysis took place during the war, partly as a result of experiences 
with psychiatric casualties. Psychiatric services were established in general 
hospitals, and federal funds and private foundations supported psychiatric 
training and psychosomatic research. Bibrings’ arrival in Boston coincided with 
a new era in American psychiatry and medicine. The ground had been prepared by 
psychoanalysts like William Healy at the Judge Baker, Ives Hendrick at Boston 
Psychopathic, and Stanley Cobb at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Grete 
Bibring served as a president of the Boston Psychoanalytic Society and 
Institute from 1955 to 1958, president of the American Psychoanalytic 
Association in 1962, and vice president of the International Psycho-Analytical 
Association. In the early 1950’s, Grete Bibring initiated an important study of 
the psychological aspects of pregnancy at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. 
Two papers summarizing the results of the study were published in the 
Psychoanalytic Study of the Child in 1961 (Vol. 16, p. 9-72). One of her major 
contributions to psychiatry was creation of different personality types to 
guide medical management of each patient. According to numerous accounts of her 
students, she was a brilliant teacher interested in bringing psychoanalytic 
ideas into a general medical setting. After she became emerita in 1965, Dr. 
Bibring continued to teach a special seminar at the Radcliffe Institute on the 
development of professional women. Between 1928 and 1976, Dr. Bibring published 
over thirty papers, in both medical and psychoanalytic journals, and as 
chapters in books edited by others. She co-authored, with Dr. Ralph M. Kahana, 
The Lectures in Medical Psychiatry (1969) and edited the The Teaching of 
Dynamic Psychiatry (1968). Several of her publications were on general hospital 
psychiatry and an important paper was on normal aging "Old Age, Its Liabilities 
and Assets" (1966). In 1975, she participated in a WGBH documentary television 
program, Psychoanalysis: A Personal View, where she was interviewed by Dr. 
Oliver Cope, MD. She also gave a major address at MIT on "Freud and the 
Understanding of Human Nature." Grete L. Bibring died on August 10, 1977 in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

## author

Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra