# Mediating the Art of Asian Cooking: Joyce Chen Cooks and the Upscaling of 
Chinese Food in America in the 1960s

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

The astounding renown that WGBH had had by the mid-1960s achieved with Julia 
The French Chef is now well known and has been studied in depth from a variety 
of angles. But much less known, and much less attended to in many histories of 
television cooking, is the fact that Julia Child's success spurred WGBH to look 
to program more works of instructional television and even of instructional 
cooking television. In particular, in 1966, the station worked with renowned 
cookbook author and Cambridge restaurateur Joyce Chen to develop a series on 
Chinese cooking. Eventually, 26 episodes of Joyce Chen Cooks were shot and 
aired between 1966 and 1967. Significantly, for a series that was intended both 
to extend the impact of The French Chef and yet move in cultural directions all 
its own, Joyce Chen Cooks employed the exact same studio set as The French Chef 
but with French motifs swapped out for stereotypical Asian ones (for example, 
wind chimes that opened and closed each episode). The use of the same set for 
two different shows allows us to discern carefully how two women, very 
different in dynamics of personality, both set out to mediate foreign foods for 
American palates and enables us to pinpoint both the regularities in cooking 
pedagogy at the time as well as the distinctiveness of any one personality as 
it engaged with its mission of culinary instruction. Joyce Chen belonged to a 
demographic of Chinese who had been well-off before the Communist take-over and 
became emigrés to the new world of America where they often employed the 
practices of high living and high-level socializing in service and hospitality 
industries such as the restaurant business. Where Chinese food in America had 
often seemed plebian and even low-class (the chop suey joint as a cheap source 
of bountiful food for clerks and downtown workers), the new Chinese 
entrepreneurs often set out to render Chinese cuisine in upscale terms that 
would attract well-off customers. Chen's fancy Cambridge restaurant was, for 
instance, a favored venue of such notable professionals as John Kenneth 
Galbraith, former Harvard President Nathan Pusey, and President Medal of 
Freedom recipient Paul Dudley White, a noted cardiologist who would in fact pen 
the foreword to Joyce Chen's 1962 cookbook. My essay situates Joyce Chen within 
the context of this emigré culture and its attempts to craft a version of 
Chinese cuisine that would appeal to urban professionals in the U.S. context. 
In particular, we see how Chen simultaneously extended the values and virtues 
Chinese food held for those Americans who were deemed to be open to a seemingly 
more upscale and more adventurous experience than middlebrow Americanized 
Cantonese cuisine alone (in fact, she touched on Peking, Shanghai, and Szechuan 
cuisines, along with more familiar Cantonese favorites), while she also 
translated exotic, even challenging fare into acceptable, even comforting, 
Americanizing terms. Above all, she felt that one defining characteristic of 
American lifestyle was the pressure of time, and she tried to teach shortcuts 
and tricks by which seemingly ambitious (and therefore, to guests, impressive) 
dishes could be crafted in expeditious, effective manner. Unfortunately, Joyce 
Chen Cooks never had a corporate sponsor behind it, and the show didn't last 
beyond its one season. Chen did return to WGBH in the 1970s for a generally 
well-reviewed special, Joyce Chen's China, but soon after accident and illness 
led her to retreat from the public scene. Nonetheless, the episodes of her 
series survive to instruct us today on a lesser-known yet meaningful moment in 
the history of televisual culinary art. 

## author

Dana Polan

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra