# The Julia Child Project: The Cold War, France, and the Politics of Food

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

Relations between the US and France were at a lowpoint in the spring of 1966. 
The country was still a popular tourist destination, and a cherished resource 
of guidelines for cosmopolitan food, art, and even sex. But things were 
changing. Anti-American sentiment appeared with increasing frequently in French 
popular media—so much so that even tourists took note Charles deGaulle, the 
president, had adopted a policy of “gaullism” that meant continual assertion of 
France’s geopolitical leadership, resisting cooperation with global political 
strategies engineered by the US, and publically criticizing American policy in 
southeast Asia. Most notably, in March of that year DeGaulle took France out of 
the fledgling North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and demanded that all 
American soldiers be evacuated from French soil. The prolonged and 
exceptionally violent loss of its empire, most recently Algeria, had left the 
nation’s politics, cultural gatekeeping institutions and public life divisive, 
if also more diverse, realms. In the midst of this, Julia Child appeared on 
American TVs and urged people to make their asparagus “the French way.” What 
could Child have meant by this? What did people think she meant? “The French 
Chef” raises these and other questions about food and cooking in the turbulent 
1960s. For a decade, Child’s show ’The French Chef” was a mainstay of public 
television programming—an important component of families’ evening viewing and 
of afternoon cooking plans. Here, cooking the French way meant some very 
specific things—working hard physically when necessary (in some episodes she 
even panted), peeling vegetables (about this she was very clear), using 
appropriate herbs, and making hollandaise by hand. It meant valuing the 
traditions of the French food system--epitomized in images of markets and 
fishermen. Above all, cooking the French way meant, as she said and 
demonstrated repeatedly, treating the work of cooking and eating with serious 
purpose and also joyful embrace. It did not necessarily mean engaging in global 
politics, but Child could hardly avoid these. After all, she had gone to France 
in the first place because of her husband’s State Department posting there 
after World War II, made her first forays into cooking as she saw him through 
the rigors of life in the 1950s diplomatic corps, and she maintained an 
interest in presenting France and its culture in inviting, accessible but also 
honest ways. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, the Childs also remained invested 
in France literally. They built a home in Provence, maintained a network of 
friends throughout the country,, watched its empire dissolve, hoped for and 
then despaired of DeGaulle’s leadership, and stocked gasoline and food when 
student and general strikes overturned the nation’s infrastructure in the 
spring of 1968. The French Chef, in contrast, presented a much older tradition 
of France as the arbiter of taste, the creator of standards and techniques that 
were truly universal. It made an argument for the French presence in haute 
cuisine, even as she and her viewers navigated a world in which French 
authority and its national coherence were increasingly strained. In the context 
of the Cold War, we can see “The French Chef” as an argument for French 
culture, and more broadly for cooking itself, as a unifying force in the face 
of disintegrating gender and sexual norms, the “quagmire” of French and then 
American efforts in Vietnam and southeast Asia, and the ethnic and racial 
tensions that characterized life in both countries. Even in this limited realm 
of gourmet cooking, Child’s claims for French superiority did not always work. 
As American viewers increasingly voiced their attachment to older forms of 
ethnic foods and newer embraces of ethnic cuisine, they sometimes questioned 
Child’s adaptions. This didn’t mean she backed down. For instance, when irate 
viewers complained that Child’s “Lasagne a la Francaise” was hardly a 
respectful appropriation of an Italian classic, Child acknowledged that it was 
not meant to be Italian but that that did not matter because French know-how 
was so central to cuisine generally: “We should be thankful to the Italians for 
having invented lasagna-shaped pastas,” she allowed but then added viewers 
should also thank the French “for their fine cooking methods that make such a 
splendid dish possible.” French technique was presented as a kind of stand-in 
for France’s coherence. Child raises these hard questions—harder than could be 
visible in her shows but not so hard that WGBH viewers didn’t think about them. 
How did the French Chef make sense in an increasingly diverse and racially 
complex cooking landscape? What did it say about the place of food in 
negotiating that world? How can it be made sense of in the context of other 
WGBH programming that mentioned France or contemporary French politics or 
racial, sexual, and social dissension in the US?; These questions speak to the 
ways that the French Chef was part of a broader phenomenon that put food at the 
center of Americans’ politics and culture in the 1960s. 

## author

Tracey Deutsch

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra