# Nine Poets Walk Into An Institute of Technology

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/scholar_exhibits/nine_poets/nine_poets_554x340.png)


## intro

Nine poets walk into an institute of technology. If this sounds like a joke, 
that's by design, for in modern times there seems to be something funny about 
the poet who moves among technologistsâ€”not funny ha ha, but funny strange. And 
yet, in 1962-3, nine poets did walk into an institute of technology. And not 
just at any institute of technology, but a pre-eminent example of the type: the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, more popularly known as M.I.T. One after 
another, John Ciardi, Robert Graves, David Ferry, X.J. Kennedy, Denise 
Levertov, Mark Van Doren, Robert Penn Warren, Theodore Weiss, and Richard 
Wilbur rose up and held forth: sometimes reading original poems, or poems by 
others, sometimes speaking about the vocation of the poet, or about poetry more 
generally. A few of these poets were younger, a few older. Some ignored the 
context of their appearance at M.I.T., but others addressed that context 
directly, and, in some cases, rather provocatively. If these occasions were 
notable and unusual, so too was their further promotion via the airwaves of 
WGBH, Boston's public radio affiliate. This media event occurred at a signal 
moment in the collision between American poetry and an increasingly 
scientifically-oriented public culture: after Frost appeared at Kennedy's 
inauguration, but before their respective deaths; after Hiroshima, Sputnik, and 
the Pill, but before the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, Earth Day, and the Asilomar 
Conference. In this setting, poets like Graves, Van Doren, and Warren took up 
the rare opportunity to speak as poets, on behalf of poetry, while confronting 
one of the primary seats of science and technology. Their remarks in the 
"Poetry from M.I.T." series continue to resonate in our own times, with the 
relationship between poetry and science in flux now as then. In the following 
collection, we'll examine some of the key themes and representative poems that 
emerged from this remarkable reading series. 

## author

Jim Cocola

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra