# Pan-African Liberation

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/scholar_exhibits/pan-african_liberation/pan-african_liberation_554x340.png)


## intro

In May of 1972, tens of thousands of African Americans gathered in Washington, 
D.C. Young and old, radical and moderate, they united not in protest of the 
government’s treatment of blacks in the United States, but rather on behalf of 
their distant kin fighting revolutions in Africa. At the first African 
Liberation Day, black peoples in the western Diaspora sought to change American 
foreign policy, which continued to actively support the colonial empire of tiny 
Portugal and the minority regimes of Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) and South Africa. The 
crowd marched through the streets of the capital, carrying signs proclaiming 
solidarity with the liberation struggles and condemning the economic 
discrimination that kept blacks subservient at home as well as abroad. The 
parade of activists made stops at the State Department and the embassies of the 
southern African regimes, where government and community leaders urged 
listeners to adopt the African revolutions as their own and boycott corporate 
partners like Gulf Oil and Polaroid that helped sustain minority rule. This 
demonstration culminated on the National Mall – renamed Lumumba Square for the 
festivities – where an estimated 25,000-40,000 people joined organizer Owusu 
Sadaukai (Howard Fuller) in chants of “We are an African People.” This 
demonstration in Washington, described by one participant as the largest 
all-black assemblage in the city’s history, was a symbol of a much larger 
movement that developed at the end of the Black Power era. Disillusioned both 
with the slow pace of civil rights in the mid-1960s and the ideological 
divisiveness of groups like the Black Panthers, African American leaders sought 
a common ground on which they could build a political and social movement that 
would unite the entire black community. They found a solution in the ongoing 
revolutions occurring in southern Africa. Since the wave of decolonization had 
begun to sweep through the continent in the late 1950s, black Africans had been 
struggling for self-determination against recalcitrant minority white 
governments. Nationalists adopted armed revolution and wholesale social 
reconstruction as necessary tactics in the face of official resistance to 
reform. By 1972, the armed conflicts in the Portuguese colonies of Mozambique 
in the south and Guinea-Bissau in the northwest had swung in the favor of the 
freedom fighters, while South Africa’s harsh system of segregation known as 
apartheid had dramatized for the world the stark inequality that separated the 
races under minority rule. The two faces of Africa – heroic struggle and racial 
injustice – provided African Americans a rallying cry as they sought to address 
the systemic economic and political problems that continued to plague their own 
communities. This sense of shared struggle gave birth to a solidarity movement, 
where African Americans pledged support to African liberation and sought to use 
these continental models of self-determination to change conditions in the 
United States. For their part, Africans joined in this exchange of equals, with 
exiles helping to lead local movements and nationalists encouraging the support 
of their brothers abroad. WGBH cameras were there at almost all stages of the 
construction of this movement, documenting the interactions of African peoples 
across linguistic, spatial, and experiential gaps. This collection will explore 
these exchanges, using episodes of Say Brother to illuminate the leaders, 
events, and campaigns that helped reignite a commitment to African liberation 
in the national imagination. Though the celebration of African Liberation Day 
would fade along with the 1970s, this identification with the continent had 
important effects on black communal identity and would feed directly into the 
more famous anti-apartheid movement of the next decade. 

## author

R. Joseph Parrott

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra