# Showing Status: WGBH and the President’s Commission on the Status of Women 
during the Kennedy Administration, 1961-63

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

October 11, 2013 marks the 50th anniversary of American Women, the final report 
requested by President John F. Kennedy at the inception of the 26 member 
President’s Commission on the Status of Women on December 14, 1961. WGBH and 
Massachusetts played an important role in the pubic history of the Commission 
when they partnered with Brandeis University in the production of the 
roundtable policy series Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt Prospects of Mankind, moderated 
by Eleanor Roosevelt. The final segment of Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt Prospects of 
Mankind: What Status for Women? first aired June 4, 1962. It included a 10 
minute discussion between President Kennedy and Eleanor Roosevelt who had been 
appointed by the President to chair the Commission. A discussion with four 
experts in labor and education, Secretary of State Arthur Goldberg, Agda 
Rossel, Representative to the United Nations for Sweden, Thomas Mendenhall, 
President of Smith College, and Dr. Mirra Komarovsky, Professor of Sociology at 
Barnard College, followed the Kennedy interview and served the public well in 
communicating the issues the American government would be evaluating with an 
eye toward improving opportunities for women. The WGBH production and President 
Kennedy’s executive order to establish the commission predates the February 
1963 publication of Betty Friedan’s Feminine Mystique, the work most often 
credited for the start of the Women’s Movement of the late 1960’s. Though 
Friedan’s book and her help in organizing NOW at the third annual conference of 
state Commissions on the Status of Women held in 1966 are often seen as the 
catalyst for change in the nation’s policies for women, a closer look at the 
earlier President’s Commission on the Status of Women reveals how the work of a 
different woman, Esther Peterson, Executive Vice Chair of the Commission on the 
Status of Women, carefully set the stage to ensure NOW’s success. This 
collection gathers newly digitized primary source media archives and research 
from the WGBH Open Vault, the John F. Kennedy Library, and Brandeis University, 
to share the contribution public television played in giving status to the work 
of the Commission and to utilize digital capabilities for the public education 
of a new generation. 

## author

Maureen Mann Tannetta

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra