# Considering Our Tech-nostalgia

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

A hundred years ago nostalgia was thought to be a psychological affliction, 
something that had a pronounced impact on an individuals cognition and ability 
to function in everyday life. Typically associated with geographical 
displacement, nostalgia was (and to a certain degree still is) synonymous with 
longing and a sense of homesickness for ones "place" - figuratively and 
literally. Nowadays it is more likely to hear nostalgia uttered in 
conversations about missing a time that felt simpler, safer, and “better,” or 
in reminiscences of yesterdays technologies that offered a tangible interaction 
with its user and seemed “easier.” Herein lies the backbone of what has been 
referred to as technostalgia: the affinity for antiquated technologies and a 
desire to utilize both obsolete and modern technologies (hardware and software) 
to re-imagine, re-live, or outright emulate aspects of our collective history, 
particularly music and the visual arts. Real-life examples of tech-nostalgia’s 
impact on our popular culture can be seen in the myriad filters which allow for 
the masking of our digital photographs in veils of fauxhistory, and the use of 
audio manipulation programs to emulate aesthetics, such as vinyl record pops 
and hisses, associated with a bygone, analog-only era. With a revived interest 
in resurrecting and recreating the physical medium in the form of record 
players, rotary telephones, and obsolete computer hardware, the hope is to 
physically connect with the past and establish a tangibility so often lost in 
our wireless world. This serves to complicate the tech-nostalgia concept even 
further. In this collection I will explore the concept of tech-nostalgia and 
its ability to make the passé, popular and the imperfect, fashionable. I will 
also highlight the genre of electronic music called, hauntology, as a specific 
manifestation of tech-nostalgia. As technology and interconnectivity become 
more streamlined with our everyday lives we seem to be both attracted and 
resistant to staying afloat in a sea of rapid technological changes and 
development. This notion will help guide my examination into tech-nostalgia. 
Lastly, I hope to offer insight into how the tech-nostalgia idea could be 
offering archivists, conservators, and information professionals new ways of 
thinking about our moving image and sound heritage in the digital age. 

## author

John Campopiano

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra