# Television on Television Violence: Perspectives from the 70s and 90s

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/collections/wpna/wpna-400x225.jp
g)

## intro

On January 10, 1995, PBS’s Frontline aired an episode provocatively titled 
“Does TV Kill?” The show investigated television viewing habits of average 
families in upstate New York, and promised to “reveal unexpected conclusions 
about the impact TV has on Americans’ world view.” But if one looks at the 
history of television discussions about television effects, Frontline only 
reiterated issues that have troubled academics and filled popular opinion since 
the introduction of television. Frontline’s investigation is part of a much 
longer history of television effects research, and decades-long concern that 
violent television was to blame for a broad range of social violence. This 
article takes a historical approach to the topic of how media discusses media 
violence by considering how television programs have addressed the problem of 
television violence and discussed available evidence. These programs are often 
prompted by real-world incidents, resulting in what media scholar Kirsten 
Drotner calls a “media panic.” [1] How commentators viewed television in the 
1990s has origins in the concern over the amount of social violence occurring 
in the nation during the 1960s. The debate over the effects of media violence 
has of course been going on for millennia. But television was seen in the 
fifties and sixties as something completely different from any other previous 
media. Like radio, but unlike cinema, it was ubiquitous within the home, often 
called a “member of the family.” But like cinema, and unlike radio, it was 
captivatingly visual. It was thus family entertainment capable of corrupting 
innocent children all over the United States from within the home. When 
unprecedented social violence erupted during the 1960s, primarily among 
high-school and college students, many adults assumed television – seemingly 
the only thing to have changed in their immediate environment – was the 
culprit. In addition, brand new experimental research protocols on the effects 
of television were devised in the early 1960s that correlated violent 
television with real-world aggressive behavior, and in 1972, the United States 
Surgeon General had deemed television violence as a public health problem. [2] 
Thereafter, there were periodic televised discussions with industry executives 
and research experts about the effects of media violence. In this collection, I 
explore four of these types of public television programs, two from the 1970s 
and two from the 1990s, and consider what, if anything, has changed in the 
questions asked and what progress the media commentators have made in 
discussing the issue. I conclude that, while certain questions about practical 
matters of television viewing have changed- such as how real the graphics look, 
or what type of programming is available at which times, the questions about 
the effects of television violence stay essentially the same. [1] Drotner, 
Kirsten. 1999. “Dangerous Media? Panic Discourses and Dilemmas of Modernity∗.” 
Paedagogica Historica 35 (3) (January): 593–619. [2] United States Surgeon 
General's Scientific Advisory Committee on Television and Social Behavior. 
1972. Television and Growing Up: the Impact of Television Violence. United 
States Public Health Service Office of the Surgeon General. 

## author

Daniella Perry

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO

## extra