# The Advocates: a retrospective on an important— and still relevant—innovation in public affairs television

1

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/openvault.wgbh.org/scholar_exhibits/advocates/advocates_554x340.png)


## intro

Before Roger Fisher founded the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School, 
he was nationally recognized for having created an award-winning public affairs 
television show, The Advocates, which aired on the Public Broadcasting System. 
Over the course of its five year season, beginning in 1969 (plus additional 
shows in 1978-79 and in 1984), The Advocates previewed some of the ideas that 
appeared in Roger’s many writings and, eventually, as part of the Program on 
Negotiation itself. The Advocates used a modified trial format to debate what 
Roger called an “important public trouble,” not in the abstract, but in terms 
of what Roger called “a decidable question”—a situation where someone, whether 
a public figure or an individual citizen at home, had to decide what to do. 
Viewers in the studio audience or at home in their living rooms were invited to 
weigh in by mail, and during the first season, a remote audience on location 
somewhere else in the country offered their opinions as well. He saw this as 
part of an effort to help citizens make “public affairs your affairs.” The 
Advocates was produced initially through a joint effort by WGBH in Boston and 
KCET in Los Angeles, two flagship stations in the public broadcasting network. 
The Advocates addressed issues ranging from civil disobedience to same-sex 
marriage. In some cases, the shows are more than four decades old, but many of 
the issues are still timely. When Roger was later teaching the Negotiation 
Workshop at Harvard Law School, in which I was a participant, he once said that 
preparing for trial and preparing for negotiation were very similar, except 
that in negotiation, “the judge you have to persuade is sitting across the 
table.” With The Advocates, you begin to get a clear sense of what he meant, in 
that the judge was really the viewer at home, rather than an adversary or 
impartial jurist. On the show, Roger played multiple roles: executive editor 
and moderator of the show during its first season; then later, as an advocate. 
I saw some of his multifaceted talent in action while I worked with him on the 
show during that first season. I took a leave of absence from law practice from 
1969-70 to appear in thirteen episodes as a Boston-based advocate on the show, 
arguing one side or another of the issue which was assigned to me and the 
producers I worked with. Over time, The Advocates changed into more of a 
partisan debate on public questions, often with a regular liberal and 
conservative advocate, or advocates who were identified with specific issues. 
While this perhaps made for simpler television, the show may have lost some of 
Roger’s original mission: to frame public choices as necessarily challenging 
decisions, with positives and negatives for either course of action, rather 
than right paths versus wrong ones. This was a preview of his later (and 
famous) “presently perceived choice,” the idea that something which seems 
sensible to you might look different to someone on the other side of a dispute. 
To learn more about The Advocates, Roger Fisher’s role in it, and some of the 
lessons the show has for us even after over forty years, you can read my more 
extensive introduction to the show, The Advocates: a retrospective on an 
important—and still relevant—innovation in public affairs television, written 
for the WGBH Educational Foundation, and maintained on its Open Vault website. 
On this WGBH Open Vault website, you can see many episodes of The Advocates in 
their entirety, including a newly added episode in which Roger appeared as an 
advocate opposite William Kunstler on the subject of civil disobedience to the 
Vietnam War. This episode was shown by the Program on Negotiation at Harvard 
Law School at a special presentation on February 28, 2013, in preparation for a 
special Harvard Negotiation Law Review Symposium on Roger’s legacy held at 
Harvard Law School on March 1, 2013. The article for WGBH grew out of my 
introduction to that February 28th presentation. The article also includes 
references to clips from that and several other episodes, and also contains a 
list of some of The Advocates shows that were produced, besides those which 
have been made available on the WGBH Open Vault. (In the list of Open Vault 
episodes in the appendix to the article, if you download the article as a PDF 
file, you should be able to click through to a specific episode in which you 
may have an interest.) While Professor Fisher is no longer with us, we can 
continue to learn from his example. 

## author

Lisle Baker

## Article

TODO

## Media

TODO

## Related Content

TODO

## Authors

TODO